# FineWiki Entry: Tired Theodore (1931 film)

**ID:** `enwiki/71350211`
**URL:** <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tired_Theodore_(1931_film)>

--- 

# Tired Theodore (1931 film)
Tired Theodore (Swedish: Trötte Teodor) is a 1931 French-Swedish comedy film directed by Gustaf Edgren and starring Valdemar Dalquist, Karin Swanström and Brita Appelgren. It was shot at the Råsunda Studios in Stockholm. The film's sets were designed by the art director Arne Åkermark. It is based on the 1913 German play of the same title by Max Ferner and Max Neal which has been adapted for the screen a number of times. A separate French-language version Night Shift, directed by Henri Fescourt, was also produced in 1932.

## Cast
- Valdemar Dalquist as Teodor Hörneman
- Karin Swanström as 	Rosa Hörneman
- Håkan Westergren as 	Bertil Hörneman
- Brita Appelgren as 	Britta Kronfeldt
- Fritiof Billquist as 	Ivar Camillus
- Maritta Marke as 	Laura Camillus
- Anna-Lisa Baude as Frida
- Rune Carlsten as Isaac Mosesson
- Gucken Cederborg as 	Sarah Mosesson
- Julia Cæsar as 	Office clerk
- Eric Abrahamsson as 	Restaurant Guest
- Harry Ahlin as 	Police Inspector's Assistant
- Bertil Brusewitz as Police Inspector
- Artur Cederborgh as 	Porter
- Carl Deurell as 	Chief of Committee
- Gösta Gustafson as Janitor Andersson
- Frithiof Hedvall as 	Anderberg
- Knut Lambert as 	Carl Mild
- Yngve Nyqvist as Restaurateur
- Ragnar Widestedt as 	Criminal


## Bibliography
- Qvist, Per Olov & von Bagh, Peter. Guide to the Cinema of Sweden and Finland. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2000.

