# FineWiki Entry: Sleepwalkers (1978 film)

**ID:** `enwiki/70834125`
**URL:** <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sleepwalkers_(1978_film)>

--- 

# Sleepwalkers (1978 film)
Sleepwalkers (Spanish: Sonámbulos) is a 1978 Spanish film written and directed by Manuel Gutiérrez Aragón starring Ana Belén alongside Norman Briski, María Rosa Salgado, Lola Gaos and José Luis Gómez. It was selected as the Spanish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 51st Academy Awards, but it was not nominated.

## Plot
The plot's historical backdrop is the Burgos trials. Ana, an activist involved  in the anti-Francoist struggle, has seemingly converted some of her life's worries into bodily symptoms, suffering from strange maladies.

## Cast
- Ana Belén as Ana[4]
- José Luis Gómez as Juan[4]
- Mª Rosa Salgado as Mª Rosa[4]
- Norman Brisky as Andrés[4]
- Lola Gaos as the nurse[4]


## Release
The film screened at the 26th San Sebastián International Film Festival in September 1978. In 1979, a jury formed by the Madrid's Asociación de Productores Independientes, the Barcelona's Asociació de Productors de Catalunya and other producers selected the film to be the Spanish submission to the 51st Academy Awards.

## Accolades
| Year | Award                                          | Category                       | Nominee(s)              | Result | Ref.        |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------------------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 1978 | 26th San Sebastián International Film Festival | Silver Shell for Best Director | Manuel Gutiérrez Aragón | Won    | [ 5 ] [ 6 ] |


## Bibliography
- Cerdán, Josetxo (1992). "Sonámbulos. Ana a través del espejo" (PDF). Vértigo. Revista de Cine (3). A Coruña: Ateneo da Coruña: 35–37. ISSN 1131-8023 – via Universitat Politècnica de València.
- Losilla, Carlos (11 April 2022). "Diccionario del cine español, 1950-1990 (12). Sonámbulos (1978), de Manuel Gutiérrez Aragón". Rinconete. ISSN 1885-5008 – via Biblioteca Virtual Miguel de Cervantes.
- Mira, Alberto (2010). The A to Z of Spanish Cinema. Lanham, Toronto, Plymouth: The Scarecrow Press, Inc. p. 155. ISBN 9780810876224.

